

Today we gonna use terminal/powershell a lot. If you are windows user, please use powershell.
Just to search and type PowerShell. Any windows has its by default

#don't worry about git version, as long as you have it you are good to go. If you don't have a git yet, please download
it from official website or use brew (for mac)

To check if you have a git, you need to run following command.

git --version

If you are not getting any errors, you are fine :)

git version

git - VCS (Version Control System)

SCM - Source Code Management

You can use git in IntelliJ without even installing it. It's because IntelliJ has git too. But, even we want to use git
via a CLI (Command Line Interface) we need to install it first.

What is VSC in action?

MyProject -- let's say it's your java project

public class MyFirstTest{
    public void test(){
        go to google.com
        get the text
        assert that title is equals to "Google"
    }
}

Once you decide that this is a first version of your project, you can commit changes.

commit changes - means take a snapshot of the project at some point

I would say git it's kind of time machine for your project.

The main role of git is to track changes. Why tracking changes is so important? Because, if something will go wrong,
we can find what change in the code broke it.

version 2:::


public class MyFirstTest{
    public void test(){
        go to google.com
        get the text
        assert that title is equals to "Google"
    }

    public void test2(){
        go to facebook.com
        get the text and print it
        assert that title is equals to "Facebook"
    }
}

Once you have completed your test #2, commit this changes, just in case.

Git can show you the difference from version to version. When (date, time) what file, what line was added,
modified or deleted. And the most important - by whom! Also, why?

How you can figure out why? There is something that calls "commit message". Every single commit must be followed by commit message.
Whenever you commit, you must describe what you have changed in this version of the code. How this version is different from previous.

In real work environment, many people can work together within the same project.

Bu if project is on my computer, how other people can access it?
For this, we use github. Github - it's a storage for projects. Every collaborator (project contributor) has a copy of the project.
Then, github has a main copy.

In case of google drive, everyone works on the same document.

In case of github (based on git) - everyone has a copy of the project.

GitHub -it's like a warehouse for git projects

Let's setup git username, email and password

How to setup?

Open terminal/powershell/git bash and write following command:

please use your github email here
This command is needed for git, know which account to use when you gonna work with github.
Otherwise, it will ask you username/password every time.

git config --global user.email "email@email.com"

once you enter this command, you will not see anything. If you see FATAL, something went wrong...

git config --global user.name "github username"
git config --global user.password "github password"

To change it, run it again

How to see config?

Just enter git config -l, and then use arrow down \|/ to scroll over git config settings. To exit from the log press 'q'

-l stands for list

git config -l or git config --list







